Vault and TCE docs. (#14240)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/pages/guides/database/vault.mdx

import Layout from '~/layouts/DefaultGuideLayout'

export const meta = {
  id: 'vault',
  title: 'Vault',
  description: 'Use Supabase to store and serve files.',
  sidebar_label: 'Overview',
  video: 'https://www.youtube.com/v/J9mTPY8rIXE',
}

> Supabase Vault provides encrypted secret storage and Encrypted Columns for Tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supabase Vault provides encrypted secret storage and Encrypted Columns for Tables.
```

Reviewer: (from Vercel comments)

> ## Vault
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: (from Vercel comments)

> Vault is a Postgres extension and accompanying Supabase UI that makes it safe and easy to store encrypted secrets and encrypt other stored data in your database. This foundation opens up a lot of possibilities for Postgres that go beyond what is available in a stock distribution. From a product perspective we're grouping various features under the “Vault banner”. Let's explore a few of these features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault is a Postgres extension and accompanying Supabase UI that makes it safe and easy to store encrypted secrets and other data in your database. This opens up a lot of possibilities to use Postgres in ways that go beyond what is available in a stock distribution.

From a product perspective, Supabase groups a number of related features under the “Vault banner”. Let's explore a few of these features.
```

## Secrets Management

> Practically speaking, the Vault is a table of Secrets and Encryption Keys that are stored using [Authenticated Encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption) on disk, but available in decrypted form through a Postgres view so that the secrets can be used by applications from SQL. Because the secrets are stored encrypted and authenticated, any backups or replication streams also preserve this encryption in a way that can't be forged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, the Vault is a table of Secrets and Encryption Keys that are stored using [Authenticated Encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption) on disk. They are then available in decrypted form through a Postgres view so that the secrets can be used by applications from SQL. Because the secrets are stored on disk encrypted and authenticated, any backups or replication streams also preserve this encryption in a way that can't be decrypted or forged.
```

> We've created a dashboard UI for the Vault that makes storing secrets easy. Click a button and type in your secret, optionally create a new key that is referenced by id (or use the existing default), and submit. Your secret is now stored on disk encrypted using the specified key id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supabase provides a dashboard UI for the Vault that makes storing secrets easy. Click a button, type in your secret,  and save. Optionally create your own keys you can use to encrypt your secret. Your secret will then be stored on disk encrypted using the specified key.
```

<video width="99%" muted playsInline controls="true">
  <source
    src="/docs/img/guides/database/vault-hello-compressed.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
    muted
    playsInline
  />
</video>

There are two main parts to the Vault UI, Secrets and Encryption Keys:

- **Secrets:** Use the Vault to store Secrets - everything from Environment Variables to API Keys. You can use these Secrets anywhere in your database: Postgres [Functions](/docs/guides/database/functions), Triggers, and [Webhooks](/docs/guides/database/webhooks). From a SQL perspective, accessing secrets is as easy as querying a table (or in this case, a view). The underlying secrets tables will be stored in encrypted form.

> - **Encryption Keys:** encryption keys are used to encrypt data inside your database. Fun fact: the Secrets you store in the Vault are encrypted with an Encryption Key which we set up by default and is not accessible to SQL or stored in your database alongside the same data it is used to encrypt. You can create different Encryption Keys for different purposes, for example: one for encrypting user-data, and another for application-data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Encryption Keys:** These are keys used to encrypt data inside your database. You can create different Encryption Keys for different purposes, for example: one for encrypting user-data, and another for application-data. Each key is encrypted itself using a root encryption key that lives outside of the database. See **[Encryption key location](#encryption-key-location)** for more details.
```

## Deep Dive on How The Vault works

<div className="video-container">
  <iframe
    src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/QHLPNDrdN2w"
    title="YouTube video player"
    frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
    allowfullscreen
  ></iframe>
</div>

As we mentioned, the Vault uses pgsodium's Transparent Column Encryption (TCE) to store secrets in an authenticated encrypted form. There are some details around that you may be curious about, what does authenticated mean, and where are encryption keys store? This section explains those details.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data
```

> The first important feature of TCE is that it uses an [Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption#Authenticated_encryption_with_associated_data_(AEAD)>) encryption algorithm based on libsodium. “Authenticated Encryption” means that in addition to the data being encrypted, it is also “signed” so that it cannot be forged, the decryption function verifies that the signature is valid **before decrypting the value**. “Associated Data” means that in addition to signing the secret, you can include any other columns in your row in the signature computation, “associating” those columns with the secret. This doesn't encrypt those other columns, but it does ensure that **they are authentic** and cannot be forged because they are included in the secret's signature. So you know when you restore your database dumps, not only are the secrets safe, but also the “associated” columns are also authentic and unforged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first important feature of TCE is that it uses an [Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption#Authenticated_encryption_with_associated_data_(AEAD)>) encryption algorithm (based on libsodium).

**Authenticated Encryption** means that in addition to the data being encrypted, it is also signed so that it cannot be forged. You can guarantee that the data was encrypted by someone you trust, which you wouldn't get with encryption alone. The decryption function verifies that the signature is valid *before decrypting the value*.

**Associated Data** means that you can include any other columns from the same row as part of the signature computation. This doesn't encrypt those other columns - rather it ensures that your encrypted value is only associated with columns from that row. If an attacker were to copy an encrypted value from another row to the current one, the signature would be rejected (assuming you used a unique column in the associated data).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Encryption key location
```

> Another important feature of pgsodium is that the encryption keys are never stored in the database alongside the encrypted data, instead, only a **Key ID** is stored, which refers to a key that is only accessible outside of SQL. Even if an attacker can capture a dump of your entire database, they will see only encrypted data and key ids, **never the raw key itself**. This is an important safety precaution, there would be no point in storing the encryption key in the database alongside the encrypted data, this would be like locking your front door but leaving the key in the lock! Storing the key outside the database fixes this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Encryption key location
Another important feature of pgsodium is that the encryption keys are never stored in the database alongside the encrypted data, instead, only a **Key ID** is stored, which refers to a key that is only accessible outside of SQL. Even if an attacker can capture a dump of your entire database, they will see only encrypted data and key ids, **never the raw key itself**. This is an important safety precaution, there would be no point in storing the encryption key in the database alongside the encrypted data, this would be like locking your front door but leaving the key in the lock! Storing the key outside the database fixes this issue.
```

> You might be wondering, ok then where are the keys stored? Supabase creates and manages the root keys from which all key ids are derived in our internal customer backend systems. We keep this key safe and separate from your data, and provide an alternate dashboard endpoint for accessing the key if you want to decrypt your data outside of Supabase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where are the keys stored? Supabase creates and manages the root keys (from which all key IDs are derived) in our secured backend systems. We keep this root key safe and separate from your data. You remain in control of your keys - a separate API endpoint is available that you can use to access the key if you want to decrypt your data outside of Supabase.
```

@michelp any other details we can provide to bring confidence about Supabase hosting these keys?

## Using the Vault

Using the vault is as simple as `INSERT`ing data into the
`vault.secret` table.

```sql

> postgres=> INSERT INTO vault.secrets (secret) VALUES ('s3kre3t_k3y') RETURNING *;

Reviewer: For consistency:
```suggestion
postgres=> insert into vault.secrets (secret) values ('s3kre3t_k3y') returning *;
```

-[ RECORD 1 ]-------------------------------------------------------------
id          | d91596b8-1047-446c-b9c0-66d98af6d001
name        |
description |
secret      | S02eXS9BBY+kE3r621IS8beAytEEtj+dDHjs9/0AoMy7HTbog+ylxcS22A==
key_id      | 7f5ad44b-6bd5-4c99-9f68-4b6c7486f927
nonce       | \x3aa2e92f9808e496aa4163a59304b895
created_at  | 2022-12-14 02:29:21.3625+00
updated_at  | 2022-12-14 02:29:21.3625+00
```

There is also a handy function for creating secrets called
`vault.create_secret()`:

```sql
postgres=> select vault.create_secret('another_s3kre3t');
-[ RECORD 1 ]-+-------------------------------------
create_secret | c9b00867-ca8b-44fc-a81d-d20b8169be17

```

The function returns the UUID of the new secret.

## Name and Description

> Secrets can also have an optional _unique_ name, or an optional description.  These are also arguments to `vault.create_secret()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secrets can also have an optional _unique_ name, or an optional description. These are also arguments to `vault.create_secret()`:
```

```sql
postgres=> select vault.create_secret('another_s3kre3t', 'unique_name', 'This is the description');
-[ RECORD 1 ]-+-------------------------------------
create_secret | 7095d222-efe5-4cd5-b5c6-5755b451e223

postgres=> select * from vault.secrets where id = '7095d222-efe5-4cd5-b5c6-5755b451e223';
-[ RECORD 1 ]-----------------------------------------------------------------
id          | 7095d222-efe5-4cd5-b5c6-5755b451e223
name        | unique_name
description | This is the description
secret      | 3mMeOcoG84a5F2uOfy2ugWYDp9sdxvCTmi6kTeT97bvA8rCEsG5DWWZtTU8VVeE=
key_id      | c62da7a0-b85d-471d-8ea7-52aae21d7354
nonce       | \x9f2d60954ba5eb566445736e0760b0e3
created_at  | 2022-12-14 02:34:23.85159+00
updated_at  | 2022-12-14 02:34:23.85159+00
```

## Querying Data from the Vault

> If you look in the `vault.secrets` table, you will see that your data is stored encrypted. To decrypt the data, there is an automatically created view `vault.decrypted_secrets`.  This view will decrypt secret data on the fly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you look in the `vault.secrets` table, you will see that your data is stored encrypted. To decrypt the data, there is an automatically created view `vault.decrypted_secrets`. This view will decrypt secret data on the fly:
```

## Turning off Statement Logging

When you insert secrets into the vault table with an INSERT statement, those statements get logged by default into the Supabase logs.  Since this would mean your secrets are stored unencrypted in the logs, you should turn off statement logging while using the Vault.

While turning off statement logging does hinder you if you're used to looking at the logs to debug your application, it provides a much higher level of security by ensuring that your data does not leak out of the database and into the logs.  This is especially critical with encrypted column data, because the statement logs will contain the *unencrypted* secrets.  If you *must* store that data encrypted, then you *must* turn off statement logging.

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET statement_log = 'none';
```

And then restart your project from the dashboard to enable that change.

In the future we are researching various ways to refine the way statement logging interacts with sensitive columns.

## See also

> - Read more about Supabase Vault in the [blog post](https://supabase.com/blog/vault-now-in-beta)
> - [Supabase Vault on GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/vault)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read more about Supabase Vault in the [blog post](https://supabase.com/blog/vault-now-in-beta)
- [Supabase Vault on GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/vault)
- [Column Encryption](/docs/guides/database/column-encryption)
```
